good morning Texas they're not so
perfect parent
sponsored by cook children's we do it
all of the kids well parents with
children living within the autism
spectrum have to come up with creative
ways to teach their children such skills
is riding an even interaction so Marnie
Danielson is the founder of the TV
teacher she's found a way a creative way
to enhance children's learning through
the use of video hi Marnie hi how are
you great thank you for having me well I
have to say we'll talk a little bit more
about the videos later on but how fun
and interactive they really are but how
did you come up with the idea that begin
with well this was a collaborative
effort I I'm an occupational therapist I
treat children and mom walked into my
clinic about five years ago with her son
Ryan his diagnosis with us was autism
right at the time we were just working
on basic getting freckles on a face I
mean she just wanted him to write his
name so bad he was not interested mom
had a brilliant observation she said my
son learns from television he likes to
watch TV let me video you and let's see
if he can work and so then the idea was
born after that well again I think it's
important to emphasize that these videos
are not just for children with issues
such as autism they can appeal to a lot
of different children but what is it
about these videos that really Foster's
learning
well I think that there's really nothing
like this out there because to model the
visual how to model writing on on TV is
intriguing to children or on a laptop
you can use them on a laptop or a smart
board the other is that you've got
auditory so they're hearing the chant
over and over up and around
letter C up and around letter C so we're
getting this rhythmic and repetitive
chants which is again to prefer the
repetition and the rhythmic aspect of it
is sometimes what children within the
autism spectrum can relate to another
children I don't children yeah across
the board sure but there's also things
and you brought a nice spread of options
that parents have things that they can
do at home that will help foster that
learning yes this
could absolutely be used as a home
program or in the school setting or in a
therapeutic setting we've got a
prewriting DVD again on laptop or smart
board as well in the classroom working
on basic strokes and drawing we've got
lower case alphabet beeps uppercase
alphabet beads and we just came out with
number beads which teaches numbers this
is the prewriting is excellent starting
at two three years old they're gonna
learn how to write and draw pictures and
write basic shapes and form right and I
even brought little Ryan's drawings
looking for so sweet and he put your
camera can see it that is yes that's his
drawing and I've also they sent you some
of these pictures to they sent it to
miss Marnie they've seen you on TV
yes and so they've drawn some things for
you to see yes
that's got to be really rewarding it's
like oh yeah all right and then you also
have these tablets here because it's
also just about the practice as well yes
getting the rhythm and the practice
around place all right and then I have
to ask you I've been dying to put this
on all day long what what what is up at
the house well in number beat Miss
Marnie does a little hat to mama and we
count the hat and then we sing the hat
song so I brought some hats for us to
try us hat song you'll get a hat song
well you can listen up she'll listen to
you sing that song and then I'll follow
along okay this will give you an idea of
kind of what you're gonna experience so
we count the number I have we've got one
hat two hats and yeah but we've just got
one on your head okay and then I'm
blowing this one Barry I've got one
little hat on my head
uh-huh uh-huh one little hat and it is
the rhythm and it's the it's the music
and then you also have the props the
demonstrations that really appeal to
kids of all ages including us yes
exactly idea I'm probably appreciated in
for more information on Marty Danielson
and her programs and to get some
insights on some fabulous hats go to the
TV teacher dot-com and also I've got
several articles on autism that you can
check out at my website which is not so
perfect calm